Lab Sheet # 01(Algorithm and Flowchart)

1. Write an algorithm and draw flowchart to find the addition of any two
input numbers.
2. Write an algorithm and draw flowchart to compute Simple interest.
3. Write an algorithm and draw flowchart to find the area and perimeter of
a rectangle.
4. Write an algorithm and draw flowchart to convert centigrade
temperature to Fahrenheit temperature.
5. Write an algorithm and draw flowchart to determine the largest number
among three numbers entered by the user
6. Write an algorithm and draw flowchart to add first 10 numbers
7. Write an algorithm and draw flowchart to check whether a given number
is zero or positive or negative
8. Write an algorithm and draw flowchart to check whether a given number
is prime or composite.
9. Write an algorithm and draw Flowchart to Calculate factorial of any
number
10.Write flowchart and program for checking whether the number entered
by the user is exactly divisible by 5 or by 11


Lab Sheet # 02(Sequence Control Statement)


11.Write a Program to display “Hello world!”
12.Write a Program to find the addition of two input numbers.
13.Write a Program initialize integer, float and character value and display
them.
14.Write a Program to input the length and breadth of a rectangle and find
the area and perimeter of rectangle
15.Write a Program to convert centigrade temperature to Fahrenheit
temperature.
16.Write a Program to calculate the area and circumference of a circle.
17.Write a Program to calculate the simple interest.
18.Write a Program to input any three numbers and find their sum and
average
19.Write a program to input any number and find the square of that input
number.
20.Write a program to calculate the area and circumference of a circle using
the concept of pre-processor directive.
21.Write a program to calculate the square root of a given number using
library function.
22.Write a program to perform addition, subtraction, multiplication and
division of any two input numbers.
23.Write a program to input three-digit numbers and find the sum of
individual digit.
24.Write a program to input three-digit numbers and find the sum of first
and last digit.
25.Write a program to input three-digit numbers and reverse that input
number.
26.Write a program to input four-digit numbers and find the sum of
individual digit.
27.Rajesh’s basic salary is input through the keyboard. His dearness
allowance is 40% of basic salary, and house rent allowance is 20% of basic
salary. Write a program to calculate his gross salary
28.Write a program to input number of days and convert it into year, month
and days
29.Write a Program to swap two numbers using third variable
30.Write a Program to swap two numbers without using third variable


Lab Sheet # 03 (Input output operations)


31. Write a Program in C to input any character and display that character value.
32. Write a program in C to perform single character input and output using getchar ()
and putchar () function.
33. Write a program in C to perform string input and output operation using gets () and
puts () function.
34. Write a program in C that make use of different conversion specification available in
C.
35. Write a program in C to input any character and display the equivalent ASCII value
of that character.
36. Write a program in C to input ID, Name and Salary of employee and display them


Lab Sheet # 04 (Control Statements)


37. Write a Program to determine whether the input number is divisible by 5 or not.
38. Write a Program to input any number and determine whether the input number is
odd or even.
39. Write a Program to find the greatest among three input numbers
40. Write a Program to input an age of a person and determine he/she is in teenager group
or not. If his/her age is 16 then display teenager as well as middle age of teenager
41. Write a Program to input a three-digit number and determine whether the input
number is palindrome or not
42. Write a program in C to input any integer type number and check whether the
entered number is positive even number or positive odd number or negative even
number or negative odd number
43. Write a program in C to find the second largest number among three numbers
The monthly electricity bill is to be computed as follows: -
a. Minimum Rs.80/- for up to 20 units
b. Rs. 7.30 per unit for next 100 units
c. Rs 9.00 per unit for any units beyond 120 units
Write a program to compute monthly bill for given number of units consumed by a
customer
44. Write a program in C to check whether the entered character is vowel or consonant
or other characters using switch case
45. Write a program to display the numbers from 1 to 100 using a) for loop b) while loop
and c) do...while loop
46. Write a program to display even numbers from 1 to n using a) for loop b) while loop
and c) do...while loop
47. Write a program to display odd numbers from 1 to n using a) for loop b) while loop
and c) do...while loop
48. Write a C program to generate the first n terms of the Fibonacci sequence
49. Write a program in C to input a three-digit number and find the sum of individual
digit using while loop.
50. Write a program in C to find the prime factors of an input number.
51. Write a program to calculate LCM of any two number entered by the user
52. Write a program to calculate HCF of any two number entered by the user
53. Write a program in C to find the sum of given number of squares using while loop.
For example, if 4 is input, then the program will print 30, which is equal to
1
2+22+32+42
54. Write a C program to find the sum of following Series: 1/1! + 2/2! + 3/3! + 4/4! + ...
N/N! Where N is any number entered by the user
55. Write a program in C that make use of break, continue and goto statement


Lab Sheet # 05 (Arrays and Strings)


56. Write a program to read n numbers from keyboard, store them in array and find
their average
57. Write a program that asks for n numbers from users, store them in an array and find
the maximum and minimum numbers of them
58. Write a program to read marks of n students and print out the top five
59. Write a program to read an array of length N. Display the total count for positive
numbers, negative numbers and zeros separately
60. Write a Program to enter salary of N employee and find total Number of employees
getting salary between 5000-1000 using an array
61. Write a program to read n numbers from keyboard and store in an array. Add even
numbers and odd numbers separately and display the result
62. Write C Program to Sort N Numbers in Ascending and Descending order
63. Write a program to read order of matrix and its elements. Find transpose of the
matrix
64. Write a program that Calculate and print the sum of individual rows and columns of
a matrix:
65. Write a program that reads a string from keyboard until user press an enter key and
count the vowels, consonants, semicolons, commas separately in the string
66. Develop a C program that prompts the user to enter two strings and concatenates
them using the strcat function. Display the concatenated string.
67. Write a C program that takes a user-input string and copies it to another string using
the strcpy function. Display the copied string.
68. Create a C program that compares two strings entered by the user using the strcmp
function. Display whether the strings are equal, greater, or less than each other.